Using the SunRize Studio16 with Bars&Pipes Professional:
--------------------------------------------------------

    Your SunRize Studio16 software integrates seamlessly into
Bars&Pipes Professional, the Amiga's premier MIDI composition and
sequencing program.  We've included four modules that load directly
into Bars&Pipes Professional and turn your Amiga into a complete music
and audio production environment.

    Once you've installed these modules (Tools and Accessories in 
Bars&Pipes Pro parlance) into Bars&Pipes Professional, you can:

    Synchronize your MIDI composition with SMPTE via the SMPTE
    input in the SunRize card.

    Access all Studio16 features and windows within the Bars&Pipes
    Professional screen.

    Cue samples to MIDI notes.  This is extremely useful for cueing
    sound effects to music as well as video.

    Record and play back a virtual digital track in sync with your
    MIDI tracks.

    To install the SunRize Tools in Bars&Pipes Professional, 
copy the tools from the "Bars&Pipes/Tools" drawer on your
SunRize disk into your Bars&Pipes Tools drawer and copy the
accessories from the "Bars&Pipes/Accessories" drawer on your SunRize
disk into your Bars&Pipes Accessories drawer.

    From within Bars&Pipes Pro, open the Tool window and select
the menu option "Load Tool..." to load in the desired tools.  To load
the accessories, open the Accessories window and select "Load..." for
each accessory you wish to load.
ACCESSORIES:

NAME: SunMPTE

    DESCRIPTION:  The SunMPTE Accessory allows Bars&Pipes Pro to
synchronize to SMPTE input entering the SMPTE port on the SunRize
board, or generated by the SunRize SMPTE Generator module.

    When you double-click on this accessory's icon, a control window
opens.  At the top the current SMPTE time is displayed.  Underneath
are two buttons, Activate and Run Lock.  If the Activate button is
depressed Bars&Pipes Pro will receive SMPTE and will start and stop in
sync with SMPTE input.  If both the Activate and Run Lock buttons are
depressed (default) Bars&Pipes Pro continuously updates its internal
time based on SMPTE input events, ensuring proper synchronization.




NAME: SunSet

    DESCRIPTION:  The SunSet Accessory allows you to run all the
SunRize Studio16 modules within the Bars&Pipes Pro screen.  When this
icon is double-clicked on the Studio16 Instance window will open,
allowing you to access all of the Studio16 software.

    The SunSet Accessory also allows you to have a unique environment
setup within Bars&Pipes Pro.  When the Instance window opens, there
will always be a module named "B&PSavePrefs".  Selecting this module
saves all preferences in the Master Preferences (except the color map)
and the size, position, and configuration of all modules currently
open.  This information is saved independantly of the normal Studio16
preferences.  The files used to save this information are in the S:
directory, Studio16BPP.config holds the defaults from the Master
Preferences, and BPPInstance holds the configuration of all the open
modules.

    Bars&Pipes Pro keeps track of whether the Instance window is open
and if Quit is selected to leave Bars&Pipes Pro and the Instance
window is open, all other modules will be automatically closed.  If
you close the instance window, make sure that you close all other
Studio16 windows before leaving Bars&Pipes Pro.

NOTE: Using this accessory may have unpredictable results if you are
      already running Studio16 on another screen.
TOOLS:

NAME: SunRize Out

    DESCRIPTION:  The SunRize Out tool translates MIDI note events
into samples to play out of the SunRize audio card.  You may assign a
different sample to each of the 128 midi notes.  You have the option
either of playing each sample out to its full duration or stopping
playback when a Note Off is received.

    SPECIAL TYPE: Output.

    USAGE: PipeLine.

    CONTROLS:  The Sample button states the name of the sample
associated with the note displayed in the Note slider, or "Undefined"
if no sample is associated with that note.  The Note slider allows you
to select the MIDI note to be displayed.

    To the right of the sample button is the Load button.  Clicking on
this button brings up a file requester so that you may select a sample
to assign to the current note, as displayed in the Note slider.
Sample file names are stored internally with their full path name, so
if a sample is renamed or moved from one directory to another it will
invalidate that entry in the sample list.

    To the right of the Load button is the Record button.  Clicking on
this button loads the Studio16 Recorder module.  This button is
provided as a convenient way to record new samples quickly without
having to load all of the Studio16 software.

    To the right of the Note slider under the Record button is a
button labelled Test.  Clicking on this button plays the current
sample, based on the current note.

    At the bottom right of the window is a button labeled Force
Duration.  If this button is depressed, samples are clipped to be
equal to the note length only.  Otherwise each sample is played out in
its entirety.

    The Driver button at the bottom of the window displays the current
SunRize device drive that is used to play back samples.  If you have
more than one SunRize card, clicking on this button will bring up a
scrolling list of all available drivers to choose from.

    Once this tool is set up, whenever it receives a note from the
pipeline that corresponds to a sample, it will begin playing.  In all
cases, pressing Stop from the Transport Controls will stop the sample
playing.

    The SunRize Out Tool is sensitive to both velocity and Control
Change 7 (Volume) for determining the volume of the sample.  When used
with the AD516 board, Control Change 10 (Panning) is used to determine
the panning of the sample.


NAME: SunRize Virtual Track

    DESCRIPTION:  The SunRize Virtual Track tool acts as a separate
track in the Bars&Pipes Pro evnironment.  It allows you to record and
playback digital audio via your SunRize card, synchronized to begin at
any specified point in time.

    SPECIAL TYPE: None.

    USAGE: PipeLine.

    CONTROLS:  Two different setups may appear, depending on whether
the current handler is the AD1012 handler of the AD516 handler.  If
you have both, the window will change its setup when you select a new
handler.

FOR THE AD1012:
---------------
    The string defined by Name: is the full path name to
the sample that is to be recorded or played back.  The default is
"<the Studio16 default path>Untitled".  The Load button to the left
opens up a file requester so that you may find a previously recorded
sample;  the name of the file selected is put into the Name: string.
While recording, if a sample of the same name already exists, that
sample is deleted.

    Directly under the "Load" button is the "Monitor" button.  This
button merely turns on and off monitoring of the input stream.

    Several sliders and the Auto Filter button control the parameters
for recording samples.  The Gain slider adjusts the input gain, and
the Rate and Filter sliders determine the sampling rate and filter
setting.  With Auto Filter on (the default), the Filter automatically
adjusts to a good value based on the rate.  None of these options has
any effect on playback of samples.

    Below the filter setting is the Start time.  This is the time that
the sample will actually start playing or recording.  By default this
time is in music time, but by selecting the SMPTE button to the left
of the start time, the time may be specified in SMPTE format.  Because
of disk access time it is not always possible to start a large number
of samples playing or recording at the same time, so staggering the
start times is recommended when playing more that two samples at a
time.

    The Meters button in the bottom left of the screen is a
convenience provided to open up the Studio16 Meters window within the
Bars&Pipes Pro screen.  This will help you to adjust the input levels
to get maximum response when recording samples.

    The Driver button at the bottom of the window displays the current
SunRize device drive that is used to play back samples.  If you have
more than one SunRize card, clicking on this button will bring up a
scrolling list of all available drivers to choose from.

    To playback a sample using the SunRize Virtual Track Tool, simply
place this tool in a pipeline, type or use the file requester to
assign the name of the sample, optionally modify the start time to
begin playing the sample, and then press start from the Bars&Pipes
Transport Control.  The sample will begin playing at the requested
time (or as close as possible if disk access time is slow) and will
stop when either the sample ends or Stop is pressed in the Transport
Controls.  If the song begins playing after the requested start time,
the sample will not be played.  If the track that the tool is in is
muted, the sample will not play.

    To record a sample using the SunRize Virtual Track tool, set up
the name and start time as for a playback sample, but also set up the
desired rate, filter, and gain settings.  Use of the Monitor and
Meters Window may come in handy to determine the proper settings.
Just as in a regular MIDI track for Bars&Pipes Pro, the track that
contains the SunRize Virtual Track Tool must be in Record mode and the
Record button in the Transport Controls must be set for recording to
take place.  Once the record mode is set, press Start in the Transport
controls and recording will begin at the start time specified in the
tool.  If the song begins after the requested start time, the sample
will not be recorded.  The only way to stop recording is to press Stop
in the Transport Controls.

    The SunRize Virtual Track Tool is sensitive to Control Change 7
(Volume), and if placed in an output pipeline can be used with
MixMaestro.


FOR THE AD516:
---------------
    The two strings defined by "Left:" and "Right:" are the full path
names to the samples that are to be recorded or played back.  The
defaults are "<the Studio16 default path>Untitled_L" and "<the
Studio16 default path>Untitled_R".  The "Load" button to the left of
each string opens up a file requester so that you may find a
previously recorded sample; the name of the file selected is put into
the string immediately to the right of the "Load" button selected.
While recording, if a sample of the same name already exists, that
sample is deleted.

    Directly under the "Load" buttons are two buttons labelled "L" and
"R".  These buttons define which samples of the two listed (Left or
Right) will be recorded to or played back from.  Either one of these
buttons or both may be selected.  If only one sample is being
recorded, it is recorded as a mono track (default pan is centered).
If both are selected the left sample is recorded with pan set full
left and the right sample is recorded with pan set full right.

    Directly under the "L" and "R" buttons is the "Monitor" button.
This button merely turns on and off monitoring of the input stream.

    The "Gain:" and "Rate:" sliders control the parameters for
recording samples.  The Gain slider adjusts the input gain, and the
Rate slider determines the sampling rate.  None of these options has
any effect on playback of samples.

    Below the "Rate:" slider is the Start time.  This is the time that
the sample will actually start playing or recording.  By default this
time is in music time, but by selecting the SMPTE button to the left
of the start time, the time may be specified in SMPTE format.  Because
of disk access time it is not always possible to start a large number
of samples playing or recording at the same time, so staggering the
start times is recommended when playing multiple samples at one time.

    The Meters button in the bottom left of the screen is a
convenience provided to open up the Studio16 Meters window within the
Bars&Pipes Pro screen.  This will help you to adjust the input levels
to get maximum response when recording samples.

    The Driver button at the bottom of the window displays the current
SunRize device drive that is used to play back samples.  If you have
more than one SunRize card, clicking on this button will bring up a
scrolling list of all available drivers to choose from.

    To playback a sample using the SunRize Virtual Track Tool, simply
place this tool in a pipeline, type or use the file requester to
assign the name of the sample, optionally modify the start time to
begin playing the sample, and then press start from the Bars&Pipes
Transport Control.  The sample will begin playing at the requested
time (or as close as possible if disk access time is slow) and will
stop when either the sample ends or Stop is pressed in the Transport
Controls.  If the song begins playing after the requested start time,
the sample will not be played.  If the track that the tool is in is
muted, the sample will not play.

    To record a sample using the SunRize Virtual Track tool, set up
the name and start time as for a playback sample, but also set up the
desired rate and gain settings.  Use of the Monitor and Meters Window
may come in handy to determine the proper settings.  Just as in a
regular MIDI track for Bars&Pipes Pro, the track that contains the
SunRize Virtual Track Tool must be in Record mode and the Record
button in the Transport Controls must be set for recording to take
place.  Once the record mode is set, press Start in the Transport
controls and recording will begin at the start time specified in the
tool.  If the song begins after the requested start time, the sample
will not be recorded.  The only way to stop recording is to press Stop
in the Transport Controls.

    The SunRize Virtual Track Tool is sensitive to Control Change 7
(Volume) to determine the volume of both samples.  Panning via Control
Change 10 is also supported.  For samples recorded Mono panning works
normally, but for stereo samples (two samples playing simultaneously),
panning reacts as if the Right sample is supposed to be full right and
the Left sample is supposed to be full left.  Panning to the right
will move the Left sampleto the right; panning to th left will move
the Right sample to the left.  If placed in an output pipeline
MixMaestro can be used to control both volume and panning.




NOTE:  Disk access time is a limiting factor in playing back and
recording samples.  Many samples playing at once and/or slow hard
drives can cause samples to get out of sync with Bars&Pipes Pro.  In
many cases you may be able to get around these problems by optimizing
our buffer sizes in the Master Preferences or moving critical samples
to RAM:.  In other cases the only solution may be to stagger your
samples so that fewer are playing at the same time.
